# PYT-SBI

# PickPocket: Binding Site Prediction Tool
AUTHORS: Adam Martí García, Núria Montalà Palau and Martí Sanchis Llovera

Welcome to **PickPocket**, a protein-ligand binding site predictor based on Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). This repository contains:

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

### program.txt
This file contains a link to the **source code** of the PickPocket application. Inside, you'll find:

- Two installation scripts: 
  - `setup.py`: Standard installation script using setuptools, defining package metadata, dependencies (like torch, numpy), and the entry point (pickpocket command).
  - `setup_pickpocket.py`: Custom script for creating a conda environment, installing Pickpocket and additional dependencies (graphein, torch-scatter) that aren't listed in setup.py.
- Folder `pickpocket.egg-info/`, which contains metadata generated by setuptools to track the package’s installation details and dependencies.
- The actual package named `pickpocket` 
  - Containing the executable (`pickpocket.py`)
  - Supporting Python modules (`scripts/`) for feature extraction, graph construction, model inference and post-processing.
  - Folder `files` which contains precomputed information for the model and also stores information of new predictions.
  - Folder `database` with uniprot used for extractng HMM and PSSM profiles
  - Folder `results`, which stores the results and visualitzations of new predictions.

### documentation.zip
This folder contains all the **documentation and theory** supporting the project, including:

- 📖 Theoretical background
- 🛠️ Installation and usage tutorial
- 🔬 Description of the analysis pipeline
- 📚 Bibliography and references

### clan_selection_options.txt
This text file contains the names of the protein clans that can be selected for some parameters when using the pickpocket executable

### Feature_Extraction
This folder contains scripts for extracting the information required by the model from the protein database (`featureExtraction.py`). Additionally, it contains the modules created for that purpose, which are also found in the package.

### Graphs
This folder contains the script used for building the graphs for the GNN.

### Normalization
This folder contains the script used for computing the min-max scale for each feature in the training set. This information is stored in a csv, needed for new predictions.

### Training_Evaluation
The last folder contains some scripts and jupyter notebooks that were created during the training and evaluation of the GNN that might be of interest.

---

## 📄 Getting Started

To install and run **PickPocket**, download and uncompress the folder in program.txt, uncompress the documentation folder and open `documentation/index.html` in your browser. This HTML file contains everything you need:

✅ How to install the required dependencies  
✅ How to set up the Conda environment  
✅ How to run the program step by step  
✅ Detailed explanations and figures  

